Crafting my own similarity formula

You will be given two scores of a trait. Determine the smilarity based on your interpretation.

How similar are these traits to each other?

a = 50
b = 50
sim = 100

a = 100
b = 0
sim = 0

a = 100
b = 20
sim = 5

a = 100
b = 40
sim = 25

a = 100
b = 50
sim = 30

a = 100
b = 60
sim = 55

a = 100
b = 80
sim = 90

a = 80
b = 0
sim = 5

a = 80
b = 20
sim = 10

a = 80
b = 40
sim = 35

a = 80
b = 60
sim = 75

a = 60
b = 0
sim = 25

a = 60
b = 20
sim = 35

a = 60
b = 40
sim = 70

a = 80
b = 50
sim = 50

a = 60
b = 50
sim = 90

If the traits are close to average, similarity will go down faster as distance increases.

100 and 90 = 95% similar
90 and 80 = 90% similar
80 and 70 = 85% similar
70 and 60 = 80% similar
60 and 50 = 75% similar

Similarity for b going away from 50

50 and 50 = 100%
50 and 60 = 75%
50 and 70 = 65%
50 and 80 = 50%
50 and 90 = 40%
50 and 100 = 35%

Similarity for b going away from 100

100 and 100 = 100%
100 and 90 = 95%
100 and 80 = 85%
100 and 70 = 70%
100 and 60 = 45%
100 and 50 = 35%
100 and 40 = 25%
100 and 30 = 15%
100 and 20 = 10%
100 and 10 = 5%
100 and 0 = 0%

Patterns Observed

It will be based on difference factor.
Samples here.

0 difference = Always 100
10 difference = Lowest 75, Highest 95 (90) (0,83 - 1,05)
20 difference = Lowest 59, Highest 88 (80) (0,74 - 1,10)
30 difference = Lowest 45, Highest 74 (70) (0,64 - 1,06)
40 difference = Lowest 36, Highest 55 (60) (0,60 - 0,91)
50 difference = Lowest 28, Highest 36 (50) (0,56 - 0,72)
60 difference = Lowest 19, Highest 25 (40) (0,48 - 0,63)
70 difference = Lowest 13, Highest 16 (30) (0,43 - 0,53)
80 difference = Lowest 7, Highest 9 (20) (0,35 - 0,45)
90 difference = Lowest 2, Highest 3 (10) (0,20 - 0,30)
100 difference = Always 0

CLOSEST TO CENTER (0,72)
Lowest: 0,18
Highest: 0,80

FARTHEST FROM CENTER (1)
Lowest: 0,25
Highest: 1,10

Closeness to center factor = between 0,72 and 1
Distance factor = between 0,226 and 1

FINAL FORMULA 

Lichnost Similarity = Distance Similarity * (1,1 * DF * CCF)
DF = (0,00774 * Distance Similarity) + 0,226
CCF = ((0,0056 * Distance from center) + 0,72) + (0,28 * (Distance Similarity / 100))

100 --> 0,774
0 --> 0

50 --> 0,28
0 --> 0

100 --> 0,38
0 --> 0

OK, now time for the Big Five and Typology Finder.

"I feel at home with abstract concepts.",
"I often get lost in thought.",
"I feel alive with mental stimulation.",
"I have an hunger for knowledge.",
"I am considered an idea generator.",
"I am more physical than mental.",
"I prefer simple tasks over complex ones.",
"I am not very keen on learning.",
"I don't learn for the sake of it.",
"I wouldn't be an academic researcher.",
"I am often engaged with aesthetics.",
"I feel the best when I try new things.",
"I enjoy wild flights of fantasy.",
"I highly appreciate variety and diversity.",
"I need to engage in creative outlets.",
"I am not a very artistic person.",
"I prefer reality over fantasy.",
"I prefer staying in my comfort zone.",
"I tend to have a conservative approach to life.",
"I am generally practical and downtoearth.",
"I am ambitious and goaloriented.",
"I easily concentrate in my work.",
"I can be some sort of a workaholic.",
"I am about getting things done efficiently.",
"I manage my time and work hard.",
"I tend to get distracted easily.",
"I am more about play than work.",
"I tend to waste time with useless things.",
"I often procrastinate and postpone.",
"I am often seen as lazy.",
"I make plans and organize things.",
"I am precise and perfectionistic.",
"I tend to schedule and routinize my days.",
"I often feel the need to clean up.",
"I make my decisions carefully.",
"I often forget why I went there in the first place.",
"I am not bothered by messy places.",
"I think routines are too limiting.",
"I don't have set places for everything.",
"I act spontaneously rather than planfully.",
"I am often the life of the party.",
"I regularly make new friends.",
"I enjoy tame with others more than alone time.",
"I don't like missing out on social events.",
"I am cheerful and laugh a lot.",
"I don't get excited and amused easily.",
"I often distance myself from other people.",
"I tend to come across as reserved.",
"I am private and have strong boundaries.",
"I am a serious person who doesn't laugh easily.",
"I take charge and lead my environment.",
"I am often the first person to act.",
"I would make for an effective leader.",
"I try to persuade people.",
"I often find myself initiating conversations.",
"I rarely dominate the conversations.",
"I prefer taking more passive roles.",
"I take a long time to make decih3sions.",
"I am not keen on speaking my mind.",
"I prefer working behindthescenes.",
"I often inquire about others' well being.",
"I enjoy helping and doing for others.",
"I often take care of others' feelings.",
"I have a soft heart for the underdog.",
"I think mercy is important.",
"I am more toughminded than tenderhearted.",
"I tend to stay cold and rational in my decisions.",
"I can be unsympathetic to others.",
"I can't stand weak and needy people.",
"I am not very interested in being charitable.",
"I try to act as fairly as possible.",
"I don't like flaunting my abilities.",
"I steer clear of conflict.",
"I am respectful of my social community.",
"I communicate tactfully with others.",
"I often think I am a superior person.",
"I often lie and cheat to get ahead.",
"I feel stimulated by a good fight.",
"I tend to be direct and unfiltered.",
"I don't really care about social niceties.",
"I am familiar with feelings of doubt and worry.",
"I get caught up in my past failures.",
"I often feel overwhelmed by the demands of life.",
"I am considered a sensitive and vulnerable person.",
"I often feel insecure and threatened.",
"I rarely feel on edge.",
"I don't worry much about worst case scenarios.",
"I feel comfortable in my own skin.",
"I am generally secure and confident.",
"I often think too little about my problems.",
"I am generally an impatient person.",
"I can be sort of an emotional rollarcoaster.",
"I often find myself overindulging in things.",
"I feel angry when things don't go my way.",
"I don't have much emotional control.",
"I am generally chill and calm.",
"I am not a person who gets annoyed easily.",
"I easily control my reactions to things.", 
"I tend to calm down easily.",
"I don't have many pet peeves."

FINAL QUESTIONS LIST 

OK, time for Enneagram.

54 questions, 3 choices per question.

Here are the commonalities per tritype:

125 - Details - Advising
126 - Superego - Dutiful
127 - Teaching - Light
135 - Competency - Detached
136 - Industrious - Organized
137 - Improving - Entrepreneurial
145 - Analytical - Nerdy
146 - Critical - Evaluating
147 - Idealistic - Visionary
258 - Manipulative - Rejection
259 - Resolving - Shy
268 - Heroic - Wamby
269 - Sacrifical - Altruistic
278 - Hedonistic - Entertaining
279 - Optimistic - Positive
358 - Strategic - Sharp
359 - Stealthy - Stable
368 - Fighting - Argumentative
369 - Adaptable - Shapeshifting
378 - Assertive - Extraverted
379 - Enthusiastic - Upbeat
458 - Independent - Dark
459 - Contemplative - Withdrawn
468 - Reactive - Intense
469 - Doubting - Seeking
478 - Creative - Innovative
479 - Imaginative - Ethereal

Now, the questions.







Let's do the Naranjo one here.

"I feel angry and resentful when I fail to meet my perfectionistic standards.", 

"My critical and fault-finding tendencies has left me in trouble with other people.", 

"I demand discipline and inhibit spontaneity and pursuit of pleasure.",

"I am harshly critical of myself and I always strive to be better.",

"I need rules and structure to function and I am methodical.",

"I postpone pleasure in order to be more disciplined and hardworking.",

"I tend to be patronizing when it comes to high standards.",

"I demand privileges and boost my self-worth by being the center of attention.",

"My excessively romantic orientation makes me overinvolved in relationships.",

"I feel the need to be attractive, affectionate, and seductive.",

"I tend to give to others so I can get the love I need.",

"I favor my emotions and expressing them way more than my thoughts.",

"I tend to be histrionic and equate pleasure with being loved.",

"I can become temperamental when I feel unloved and unneded.",

"I need to be appreciated, so I only show the best parts of myself to others.",

"My need for achievement has made me aggressive and ruthless.",

"I have an easy time marketing myself and getting the attention I need.",

"I have trouble understanding my true self because of my modified image

"I mirror my environment and thrive on admirations of others.",

"I control my emotions in order to appear more desirable and achieve more.",

"I feel empty inside, so I constantly chase accomplishments.",

"I envy people who live seemingly normal lives but I don’t want to live an ordinary life.",

"I tend to feel inadequate and inferior to others.",

"I tend to suffer a lot and I tend to use my suffering to get love and attention from others.",

"I mix my emotions with intellect in order to make them more meaningful.",

"I channel my pain into art and beauty, so I can feel more understood.",

"I feel superior to others who are not as deep and unique as me.",

"I need to be refined and beautiful, and I attempt to be different than who I am.",

"I withhold myself from my environment in order to conserve my limited energy.",

"My detachment from others makes it easier to discard relationships.",

"I fear being overwhelmed by environment, so I laser-focus on my interests.",

"I am not connected to my feelings, and I have trouble being emotional without overthinking.",

"I tend to observe vastly more than I participate fully.",

"I shield myself from pain because I’m very sensitive to pain.",

"I replace actually living with reading and understanding the world instead.",

"I am very conscious of my own anxiety and insecurity.",

"I need to control myself and the environment in order to feel safe and sound.",

"I need to know what’s true and possible consequences before I can act.",

"I feel threatened in an unsafe world, so I act friendly to gain support.",

"I fear making mistakes, so I need to be precise and follow instructions.",

"I tend to idealize authority and things but at the same time, rebel against them.",

"In order to shield against rejection, I become suspiciously critical and self-deprecating.",

"I need to enjoy life, so I don’t feel guilty about seeking pleasure.",

"I tend to be rebellious and view others as equals.",

"My lack of self-discipline and unwillingness to postpone pleasure makes me unstable.",

"I can easily attract others by appearing happy and optimistic.",

"I prioritize my own needs over others, which it makes me rather exploitative.",

"I reframe problems and avoid them in order to escape from pain and negativity.",

"I’m never satisfied with the present world, so I need to seek the next big thing.",

"I take pleasure in intensity, aggression, and fighting for my independence.",

"When I feel frustrated, I can easily express my anger without any guilt.",

"I am strongly opposed to authority and tradition in order to pursue power.",

"I need to avoid vulnerability, so I act superior and powerful.",

"I prioritize action over intellect and feelings, and make decisions fast and instinctively.",

"I tend to see others as potential competitors or targets of exploitation.",

"Morality is for the weak, I will aggressively do what I want.", 

"I tend to numb myself with routine and mindless activities.",

"My detachment from the outer world makes me forgetful and fuzzy.",

"I am not very aware of myself, so I live vicariously through others.",

"I need to protect the peace, so I tend to go along with what others want.",

"I am not as important as others, which it means I can’t assert myself and I need to adapt instead.",

"My resigned attitude makes me laid-back and self-effacing.",

"I see myself as fluid in self-concept, so I don’t have a predetermined internal identity."

Enneagram Test
Will be based on different triads.
3 options per question. Choose the one that fits you the best.
There are a total of 54 questions.


What about "Third Region"?

4 types, 3 traits for each. It's tetrahedral.
The axes are:

Emotionally Controlled - Emotionally Free
Specialist - Generalist
Professional - Casual

12 questions. Very short yet effective.


"I have an easy time controlling my reactions.",
"I tend to repress my emotions in order to stay rational.",
"I try to express myself as freely as possible.",
"I am pretty much authentic and unfiltered.",
"My interests are very selective and personal.",
"I focus on one thing to become really good at it.",
"I feel bored when I am not exploring new interests.",
"I feel the need to be good at everything.",
"I take my job seriously and want to perform high.",
"I care a lot about my performance and presentation.",
"I just do what I enjoy regardless of performance.",
"My content tends to have an "everyday" vibe."


RELEASE VERSION MUST HAVES

Character Comparison
* Updated Developer scores
* Import from your results
* MBTI + Enneagram options
* Character presets + rapid compare
* Other ways of measurement rather than just percentage
* Descriptions of traits

HBNT
* Visual results (neurotype chart)
* Type Descriptions

Business Chemistry
* Visual results (Bc chart)
* Type Descriptions

Medical Suitability
* Probably done!

META 
* Visual results (again)
* Proper META types
* Descriptions

OSPI 
* Visual results
* Descriptions

Temperament Test
* Descriptions
* Visual results

Content Creator Style
* Proper type Descriptions
* Visual results

CPTI 
* Needs to be added
* Personality type indicated

Enneagram
* More testing methods
* Visual results
* Descriptions

Big Five
* Add the damn Typology Finder!
* Descriptions
* Predictions
* Most similar Character
* Export option
* Save results
* Visual results
* Pattern types

Coffee
* Add the test!
* Flowchart Style

GD 
* Add the test!
* Flowchart Style


CPTI test will have 3 parts:

1- Temperament (IP IJ EP EJ)
2- Find the dominant function
3- Find the second function

CPTI Temperament questions

"I prioritize my own criteria in my decisions.",
"My worldview is based on my independent judgments.",
"I am able to do what I want without being pressured by others.",
"I prioritize personal uniqueness in my lifestyle.",
"I have a hard time adapting to the objective criteria.",
"I may be perceived as self-centered.",

"I organize information to form internal impressions and keep things predictable.",
"I plan things out well in advance in order to avoid too much risk.",
"One of my strengths is my ability to plan ahead and organize.",
"I am great at preventing bad consequences by preparation.",
"I have a hard time with unexpected changes.",
"I can often be rigid and stubborn.",

"I am considered as spontaneous and somewhat impulsive.",
"I often seek new experiences or possibilities.",
"I easily adapt to new and novel information.",
"One of my strengths is my flexibility and adaptability.",
"I have a hard time focusing on one thing for a long time as I feel bored.",
"I can come across as scattered and unprepared.",

"I adjust myself to external expectations to contribute to others.",
"I make decisions primarily based on external and objective factors.",
"I am considered a natural teamplayer.",
"I excel at adapting to my chosen group.",
"I have a hard time actually knowing myself.",
"I tend to devalue individuality either in myself or others."



Now, time for progress log:

Character Comparison Tool 
* It's nearly done, just presets need to be inserted
* Maybe MBTI + Enneagram option?
* Multi comparison feature?

HBNT
* Graphical results and descriptions needed

Business Chemistry
* Full results needed + descriptions

Medical Suitability
* Pretty much done

META
* This is for fun so I call this done, just descriptions

OSPI
* Maybe an axial system?

Four Humors
* Descriptions needed

CreatorStyle
* Descriptions needed again

CPTI
* The test will just get an overhaul.

Enneagram Tests
* More tests will be added

Big Five
* Big updates coming soon. Here are some of them:
* Predictions based on your personality (Music taste, majors, health, lifestyle, etc.)
* Typology finder, estimator, elimination tool, etc.
* More contextual, specific, and predictive questions
* Export to character comparison tool
* Personalized Descriptions

Other tests will be added as well.


Enneagram Comparative Test

"Frequently consume educational content during free time.",
"Set specific goals and work hard to achieve them.",
"Pursue making new friends and keeping a wide social sphere.",
"Give emotional support to others rather than giving rational solutions.",
"Frequently imagine worst-case scenarios and threats.",
"Be viewed as a creative, artistic, and unconventional person.",
"Make schedules or routines for your day as it stabilizes your life.",
"Make quick decisions with your action-oriented attitude.",
"Steer clear of interpersonal conflict as much as possible.",
"Often get angry or upset over seemingly minor inconveniences.",
"Prefer mentally stimulating activities or jobs over simple ones.",
"Be intentional with spending your time and don’t waste much of it.",
"Often be considered as the enthusiastic one in the group.",
"Often help or donate to others in order to take care of them.",
"Feel easily discouraged by bad events or performance.",
"Embrace alternative and eccentric lifestyles over traditional ones.",
"Use your detail-oriented attitude to prevent mistakes and omissions.",
"Prefer taking charge and leading over more passive roles.",
"Focus on calming others down rather than shaking them up.",
"Frequently be seen as having a temperamental attitude.",
"Engage in solving puzzles such as Sudoku or Rubik’s Cube.",
"Focus on getting things done and checking things off from a to-do list.",
"Seek exciting and fun experiences to not feel bored.",
"Vicariously feel pain if someone else is also experiencing pain.",
"Often feel insecure and doubtful about your own abilities.",
"Often daydream and view it as an essential part of life.",
"Consider details and contingencies to make careful decisions.",
"Be considered as having a strong personality.",
"Prefer collaborating with others rather than competing with them.",
"Often binge on food, social media, etc. to escape the moment.",
"Often engage in philosophical or complex thought.",
"Easily focus on finishing the task at hand.",
"Usually prefer the company of others over alone time.",
"Frequently inquire if others are feeling good or not.",
"Be considered as a person with frequent negative feelings.",
"Pursue understanding yourself and your feelings, values, and lifestyle.",
"Often utilize planners or agendas to keep your life in order.",
"Be eager to share your thoughts and opinions.",
"Make a point to act and play as fair as possible.",
"Frequently experience volatile mood shifts throughout the day.",
"Be viewed as having an inquisitive and cerebral attitude.",
"Prefer a productive lifestyle over a laid-back one.",
"Frequently have a good laugh with others or yourself.",
"Often be viewed as having a soft and tender heart.",
"Often feel stopped by your fears and negative attitude.",
"Prefer a new place, route, or method over a known one.",
"Frequently be reminded of your organizational attitude.",
"Often find yourself dominating the conversations.",
"Rarely try to flaunt yourself and your abilities.",
"Have somewhat extreme reactions to things in general.",
"Feel satisfied by consuming complex, challenging material.",
"Be seen as an ambitious and hardworking person.",
"Often feel excited about social events such as parties.",
"Often put others’ needs and well-being over your own.",
"Easily get caught up in negative or pessimistic patterns.",
"Frequently engage in creative outlets such as music and art.",
"Work to keep your spaces as clean and orderly as possible.",
"Often feel bored if you have to work behind-the-scenes.",
"Be seen as a very humble and polite person.",
"Be easily made to lose control of my own feelings."


Herrmann Neurotypes Descriptions

Technician: This is the most analytical and logical neurotype. This type is all about technical and logical analysis, with little room for action or feelings. They almost always make decisions based on cold, hard facts. They may struggle with expressing their feelings.

Scientist: This neurotype enjoys learning and analyzing scientific concepts. They put a great deal of focus on mental and intellectual pursuits. This is the type most focused on culvitating their minds. They may struggle with irrational or needy people.

Inventor: This neurotype is all about new ideas and inventions. They love brainstorming and finding novel solutions to problems. They tend to feel bored with routine and prefer changing things up instead. They may struggle with doing things by-the-book.

Fascinator: This is the most imaginative and synthesizing neurotype. This type is all about imaginative exploration and experimentation. They are the most creative out of all 16 neurotypes. They may struggle with rigid routines and administrative tasks.

Architect: This type is analytical, precise, and cautious. This neurotype is most concerned with accurate information and logical consistency. They can be somewhat perfectionistic. They may struggle with being overly reserved and not enthusiastic enough.

Professor: This neurotype is the true professor or teacher. This is one of the more balanced neurotypes: Mostly logical and analytical, yet also people-oriented. They are about relaying the most accurate information to people. They may struggle with emotionally unstable people and environments.

Entrepreneur: This neurotype is great at generating ideas and then executing them. They are visionary and future-oriented. This neurotype is quite ambitious. They may struggle with lazy and overly complacent people. 

Adventurer: This is the most adventurous and thrill-seeking neurotype. There's a big emphasis on action and experimentation with this type. They are flexible and adaptable. They may struggle with being too impulsive and not careful enough with decisions.

Inspector: This type is all about organization and details. This is the most detail-oriented out of all neurotypes. They are highly focused and don't get distracted easily. They may struggle with adapting and trying new things.

Go-Getter: This neurotype is highly action-oriented and decisive. They have a great desire to work hard and achieve a lot. They primarily focus on the use of information. They may struggle with overly relaxed and laid-back environments and they feel compelled to take charge of these situations.

Coach: This neurotype is the true coach or mentor. They understand other people's desires, and then find the right way to help them. This is a neurotype of emotional intelligence. They may struggle with overly technical and one-size-fits-all approaches.

Influencer: This is one of the most people-oriented neurotypes. This neurotype is great at interacting with and persuading people. They are enthusiastic and flexible, with a dramatic bent. They may struggle with overly formal and crtical anvironments.

Administrator: This is the most organizational and administrative neurotype. They are all about planning, order, and getting things done in a steady fashion. They tend to have conservative approaches. They may struggle with creativity and they can be overly conventional.

Guardian: This neurotype is safekeeping and protective. This type puts a great deal of focus on practical tasks. They are routine-oriented and patient. They don't just protect themselves, but also others. They may struggle with new and novel approaches to problem-solving.

Caregiver: This is a highly altruistic and sacrifical neurotype. This type is all about helping others and taking care of them. They tend to put others' needs over their own. They may struggle with logical analysis and mental pursuits, prefering to attend to others' feelings instead.

Entertainer: This is the most interpersonal, emotional, and kinesthetic neurotype. They put a lot of focus on physical activity and entertaining others and themselves. This type is all about being fully immersed in the moment. They may struggle with analytical approaches, prefering immediate experience.

Process log

Character Comparison
* Pretty much ready, just more presets

HBNT
* Complete test

Business Chemistry
* Complete Test

Medical
* Complete Test

META
* 24 types will be created.
* And type descriptions for each.

OSPI
* Pretty much done

Four Humors
* Measurement method may or may not change.
* Temperament blends descriptions will be added.

Content Creator Style
* 8 creator styles will be added with descriptions.

CPTI
* The test may get an overhaul with new questions.

Enneagram
* Naranjo one will get descriptions and visual results.
* More enneagram testsmay come as well.

Big Five + Typology Finder
* The Big Five portion is Complete
* Typology Finder portion will be added

Coffee
* Flowchart-style test will be added.
* Or I may make a complass-style test measuring coffee-related metrics.

GD
* Not sure about that.
* This will include Meltdown + Subzero levels for a total of 27 levels. +1 if 2.2 comes out :D

Spotify Hero Test
* Will be added to measure your listening style
* Maybe there'll be a general version as well

Spotify Mandala Test
* This is for 2022 wrapped


META type descriptions

Four Attitudes
M style: 
E style: 
T style: 
A style: 

First one is your dominant style.
Second one is your flavor style.
Last one is your blindspot.

META: 
MEAT:
EMTA:
EMAT:

MTEA:
MTAE:
TMEA:
TMAE:

MAET:
MATE:
AMET:
AMTE:

ETMA:
ETAM:
TEMA:
TEAM:

EAMT:
EATM:
AEMT:
AETM:

TAME:
TAEM:
ATME:
ATEM:









